This is my log of the long-term adventure of tweaking Simply Love to have improved UX for beginner and intermediate players.


Arcade dance games in general aren't exactly the most accessible or intuitive - when Simply Spud was still very close to stock SL and put in a public arcade, it was quickly noticed that there were a lot of things that were confusing to casual arcade goers.
It was then that work began to help improve the gameplay experience for new players.

This isn't to knock the original Simply Love, to be clear - where Spud is for the casual player, Love is for the high-level ITG players. Just like how design choices targeting high-level players might not work well for new players, the inverse is true as well - not everything done in Simply Spud will work for high-level players, either.
They're different games for different players, and that's 100% okay!

I'm not exactly a professional game designer, but hopefully putting my notes for what I've done and what I've noticed will help others who are looking for this kind of deep-dive experience with creating rhythm game UIs.
This document is written from the perspective of a theme developer trying to target the general public in a public arcade, receiving feedback from arcade staff and local players.




Stumble: Unclear mode selection (Casual, ITG, FA+, StomperZ) frequently leads users to accidentally pick the wrong mode
Change: Mode selection reduced to two clear choices with brief descriptions instead of the lengthy (but very descriptive ^_^) sentences in SL - Beginner and Pro mode.
    Regular and Marathon remains behind the Pro mode option, as they did in stock SL.




Stumble: The multiple different rating scales used by the community are very confusing for new players - "This seems really really hard for a level 6!"
Change: Gradual tweaks over several months:
  - Rating scale information when hovering over a group (and a description of the kind of music and charts in a group, too)
  - Color-coded song titles based on rating scale (Green for DDR X scale, Yellow for ITG scale, Orange for Modfiles)
  - Rating scale is shown next to the difficulty pane
  - The maximum number of blocks for each chart in the difficulty pane changes depending on the selected song's scale - 20 for DDR X, 15 for ITG, 13 for Mods
  Surely more can be done. Just need to strike a balance between being informative but not obtrusive.
  This is currently done in theme lua. Adding rating scale flags to the engine has been discussed (see https://github.com/TeamRizu/OutFox/discussions/441)




Stumble: New players sometimes attempt to navigate the options menu the same way as the music wheel. Instead of left/right navigating between options, left/right *change* the options, and start moves to the next option.
Suggested Change: This could be added as a new option, in addition to the current StepMania-style and Arcade-style options. Left/Right whould move between items, and start whould select that item and allow it to be changed. Start again to confirm the selection.
    This would keep how you menu consistent between screens.




Stumble: The different speedmod types are not very descriptive, and it's unclear what the difference between them is.
Change: Added slightly more text in the options menu for this. These changes have not proved effective.




Stumble: New players may inadvertently choose a modfile
Change:
  - Modfile group titles are renamed to include [Mods] on the Spud cab.
  - Modfile song titles are colored orange.
  - Scrolling over a modfile for the first time shows a warning message. This is not shown again after this point, and the flag tracking this is saved to the player's profile.




Stumble: 


